# Introduction

This folder contains the main scripts used for modelling the data in the paper.

## Directory abc_smc
Scripts used to run ABC SMC and plot the results on real data assuming neutral or selection model.
When four summary statistics are used (including branch length ratio), X-logdist-withbratio.jl should be used.
Otherwise, X-logdist.jl should be used.

A file dataset_X_sstatX.txt containing all the summary statistics computed from both copy numbers and the image tree will be generated by script runABC_SMC*.jl.


## Directory dic
Scripts used to compute and plot DIC (deviance information criterion) values under neutral or selection model.


## Directory power_analysis
Scripts used to generate simulated data, run ABC rejection, do model selection and plot the results.


## Directory lrt
Scripts used to perform LRT (likelihood-ratio test) on pure birth tree.


## Directory preprocess
The script used to preprocess original copy number data.
The following files will be generated for each dataset:

* dataset_X_clonal.txt:
This file contains clonal chr-level and arm-level copy numbers.

* dataset_X_subclonal.txt:
This file contains subclonal chr-level and arm-level copy numbers.

* dataset_X_rvec.txt:
This file contains summary statistics computed from copy numbers.

* dataset_X_uvec.txt:
This file contains unique subclonal chr-level and arm-level copy numbers, used to derive summary statistics in dataset_X_rvec.txt.
Column 'rcn' represents copy number relative to the clonal copy number.

* dataset_X_summary.txt:
This file contains information obtained when counting clonal and subclonal CNAs in the dataset.
